SQL-S3-SOLUTIONS






﻿1)What are joins ? Explain the different types of joins and their uses?



Joins in SQL are used to combine records from two or more tables into a single result set based on a related column between the tables. There are several types of joins:





Inner Join: returns only matching rows from both tables.
Left Join or Left Outer Join: returns all rows from the left table and the matching rows from the right table, with NULL values for non-matching rows in the right table.
Right Join or Right Outer Join: returns all rows from the right table and the matching rows from the left table, with NULL values for non-matching rows in the left table.
Full Outer Join: returns all rows from both tables, with NULL values for non-matching rows in either table.


2) Write an SQL query to demonstrate joins ?



An example of a join in SQL is the INNER JOIN. It returns only the rows where there is a match in both tables. The syntax for an inner join is:

SELECT columns
FROM table1
INNER JOIN table2
ON table1.column = table2.column;




3) What are constraints in SQL? Explain 5 of them.



Constraints in SQL are rules that enforce data integrity in a database. Five commonly used constraints are: NOT NULL, UNIQUE, PRIMARY KEY, FOREIGN KEY, CHECK.



NOT NULL Constraint: A NOT NULL constraint ensures that a column cannot have a NULL value. It is used to enforce a column to have a non-null value, which means the column must have a value when a new record is inserted into the table.
UNIQUE Constraint: A UNIQUE constraint ensures that all values in a column are unique. It means no two records in a table can have the same value for a UNIQUE column.
PRIMARY KEY Constraint: A PRIMARY KEY constraint is a combination of a NOT NULL and UNIQUE constraint. It uniquely identifies each record in a table and acts as a reference for foreign key constraints in other tables.
FOREIGN KEY Constraint: A FOREIGN KEY constraint is used to enforce referential integrity, which means that the values in a column must match the values in another table's primary key column. This ensures that data is consistent and prevents invalid data from being entered into the database.
CHECK Constraint: A CHECK constraint allows you to specify a condition that must be met before data can be inserted or updated in a table. If the condition is not met, the data is not inserted or updated, and an error message is returned. It is used to enforce business rules on data in a table.




4) What is UNIQUE constraint?



UNIQUE constraint is used to enforce the uniqueness of values in a column. It ensures that no two rows have the same value in a specified column.





5) What are primary keys and foreign keys.When to use what ? Explain with an example.



Primary keys are used to uniquely identify each record in a table, whereas foreign keys are used to establish a relationship between two tables. 

Primary keys are used as the main reference in a table, while foreign keys are used to link the data of two tables.



CREATE TABLE employees (

  employee_id INT PRIMARY KEY,

  first_name VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,

  last_name VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,

  department_id INT,

  FOREIGN KEY (department_id) REFERENCES departments(department_id)

);



 In the above example, the "department_id" column in the "employees" table is a foreign key that refers to the "department_id" column in the "departments" table, which is the primary key. 



6) What is the difference betwen primary key and unique key?



The main difference between primary key and unique key is that a primary key cannot have a null value and cannot be duplicated, while a unique key can have a null value, but cannot be duplicated.



